# Contributing

Flexblock relies on student contributions, so we want to makle it as
easy as possible for you to contribute. Before you can contribute, you
must have a GitLab account. You can click
[here](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) to sign up for one. You will
also need to download [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).

## Finding a Good Issue

Most of the time you contribute to Flexblock, you will be fixing an
issue. [Issues](/../issues) allow contributors to discuss problems
with the current state of the application. If you are contributing to
fix a problem you discovered yourself, you should open a new issue
about the problem. We also set aside issues that are [good for new
contributors](/../issues?label_name[]=good+first+issue). If you are
looking for something to contribute, check out these issues.

## Forking the Project

Forking a project makes a copy of the project on your own GitLab
account. If you are unsure of how to fork, read GitLab's
[documentation on
forking](https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/gitlab-basics/fork-project.html).
After you fork, you should make a feature branch to contain the
changes you want to make. See GitLab's [documentation on
branching](https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/user/project/repository/web_editor.html#create-a-new-branch-from-a-project-39-s-dashboard).

## Creating a Merge Request

After you have forked the project and created a feature branch, you
should create a merge request. A merge request is exactly what it
sounds like: a request that changes you make be merged into the
project. Go to Flexblock's [merge request page](/../merge_requests),
and create a new merge request from your fork's `feature` branch to
Flexblock's` master` branch. Your merge request title should start
with `WIP: ` to show that you are still working on changes. For more
information about creating a merge request, see GitLab's
[documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/gitlab-basics/add-merge-request.html).


## Making Changes

Once you create a merge request, you should start making your
changes. Clone *your* fork of Flexblock to your local computer. You
should organize your changes into logical *commits* using git.  For
more information about using git, check out these
[resources](https://try.github.io/). After you make your changes, push
them back to GitLab. They will be automatically tested, and if they
pass the tests, they will probably be merged.
